Add Swift Package Manager docs (#10827)
flutter/website: src/content/packages-and-plugins/swift-package-manager/for-app-developers.md

---
title: Swift Package Manager for app developers
description: How to use Swift Package Manager for native iOS or macOS dependencies
---

Flutter is migrating to Swift Package Manager to manage iOS and macOS native
dependencies.
This is an experimental feature that may change in the future.
It is currently only available on the [`master` channel][].
Flutter will continue to support CocoaPods until further notice.

:::tip
If you find a bug in Flutter's Swift Package Manager feature,
please [open an issue][].
:::

[`master` channel]: /release/upgrade#switching-flutter-channels
[open an issue]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/issues/new?template=2_bug.yml

{% include docs/swift-package-manager/how-to-enable-disable.md %}

## Add Flutter to an existing app (add-to-app)

Flutter's Swift Package Manager feature does not support add-to-app scenarios
yet.

For status updates, see [flutter#146957].

[flutter#146957]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/146957

> ## How to add Swift Package Manager integration to a project manually

Author: Our hope is that the automatic migration will migrate most projects. Hopefully most users won't need to follow these steps.

However, users can modify their project in a way that breaks out automatic migration. Ideally users would let us know about these modifications so that we can improve our automatic migration.

Question for reviewers: Is it clear that most people can skip these steps?

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Remove _manually_. If the reader is doing something, then it's manual by definition.

```suggestion
## How to add Swift Package Manager integration to a project
```

Author: I removed manually from the section header but clarified the section intro to clarify these steps are only necessary if the automatic migration fails.

{% tabs %}
{% tab "iOS project" %}

{% include docs/swift-package-manager/migrate-ios-project-manually.md %}

{% endtab %}
{% tab "macOS project" %}

{% include docs/swift-package-manager/migrate-macos-project-manually.md %}

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> ## How to use a Swift Package Manager Flutter plugin that requires a higher OS version

Author: This is a new kind of error that users can hit when using SwiftPM.

If a Swift Package Flutter Manager plugin requires a higher OS version than
the project, you may get an error like this:

```text
Target Integrity (Xcode): The package product 'plugin_name_ios' requires minimum platform version 14.0 for the iOS platform, but this target supports 12.0
```

To use the plugin, you'll need to increase the Minimum Deployments of your
app's target.

:::warning
This raises your app's minimum OS version requirement.
:::

{% render docs/captioned-image.liquid,
image:"development/packages-and-plugins/swift-package-manager/minimum-deployments.png",
caption:"The target's Minimum Deployments setting" %}

> ## How to add Swift Package Manager integration to a custom target

Author: This is for advanced scenarios where users have heavily modified their project. Most users won't need these steps. Please let me know if there's a better way to call out this special case without making the "manual migration" docs overly convoluted.

Reviewer 2: Maybe "to a custom Xcode target" and then explain what that means in the first sentence?

Author: Added!

Follow the steps in
`How to add Swift Package Manager integration to an iOS/macOS project manually`.

In Step 1, list item 6 use your custom target instead of the Flutter target.

In Step 2, list item 6 use your custom target instead of the Flutter target.

> ## How to remove Swift Package Manager integration

Author: In theory no one needs to do these steps unless there's a horrible bug in our SwiftPM integration.

---
title: Swift Package Manager for app developers
description: How to use Swift Package Manager for native iOS or macOS dependencies
---

Flutter is migrating to [Swift Package Manager][] to manage iOS and macOS native
dependencies.
This is an experimental feature that might change in the future.
It is currently only available on the [`main` channel][].

> Flutter will continue to support CocoaPods until further notice.

Reviewer 2: Can we hoist this into an `:::important` banner at the top, or whatever strong indicator the rest of the site uses for experimental docs?

Author: I wrapped this in a `:::important` banner. @sfshaza2 Let me know if there's a better way to label experimental docs.

Reviewer 3: All you need to do is:

:::important
Your content here
:::

Author: Done! :)

---

:::warning
Flutter is migrating to [Swift Package Manager][] to manage iOS and macOS native
dependencies.
Flutter's support of Swift Package Manager is under development.
The implementation might change in the future.
Swift Package Manager support is only available on the [`main` channel][].
Flutter continues to support CocoaPods.
:::

Flutter's Swift Package Manager integration has several benefits:

1. **Provides access to the Swift package ecosystem**.
   Flutter plugins can use the growing ecosystem of [Swift packages][]. 
2. **Simplifies Flutter installation**.
   Xcode includes Swift Package Manager.
   You don't need to install Ruby and CocoaPods if your project uses
   Swift Package Manager.

If you find a bug in Flutter's Swift Package Manager support,
[open an issue][].

[Swift Package Manager]: https://www.swift.org/documentation/package-manager/
[`main` channel]: /release/upgrade#switching-flutter-channels
[Swift packages]: https://swiftpackageindex.com/
[open an issue]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/issues/new?template=2_bug.yml

{% include docs/swift-package-manager/how-to-enable-disable.md %}

> ## How to add Flutter to an existing app (add-to-app)

Reviewer 4: this was a surprising header in this file, and it was surprising to see this first before "how to add SPM to a project".

Consider:

* How to add SPM to a full Flutter app

<existing doc below>

* How to migrate to SPM for a Flutter add-to-app scenario

Not yet supported, follow this bug, etc...

In this way, the headers rhyme and are clear about their scenarios. WDYT?

Author: This is excellent feedback. The guide was misleading: hopefully no one needs to do the manual steps. I restructured the page and added a guide dedicated to the auto migration. I also renamed these headers to align better. See: https://github.com/flutter/website/pull/10827#issuecomment-2231753344

---
title: Swift Package Manager for app developers
description: How to use Swift Package Manager for native iOS or macOS dependencies
---

:::warning

> Flutter is migrating to [Swift Package Manager][] to manage iOS and macOS native
> dependencies.
> This is an experimental feature that might change in the future.
> It is currently only available on the [`main` channel][].
> Flutter will continue to support CocoaPods until further notice.

Reviewer: **issue:** Condition, then instruction per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/sentence-structure).
Keep the documentation timeless per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation).

```suggestion
To manage iOS and macOS native dependencies,
Flutter is migrating to [Swift Package Manager][] .
Flutter's support of SPM as described in this guide is under development. 
The implementation might change in the future.
SPM support can be found on the [`main` channel][] only.
Flutter continues to support CocoaPods.
```

Author: Normally I agree that "condition, then instruction" is better, but I think it makes the first sentence choppy. I personally prefer the original first sentence. How strongly do you feel about this?

I updated the remaining sentences!

:::

Flutter's Swift Package Manager integration has several benefits:

> 1. **Access to the Swift package ecosystem**.
>    Flutter plugins can use the growing ecosystem of [Swift packages][]! 
> 2. **Simplifies Flutter installation**.
>    Swift Package Manager is bundled with Xcode.
>    In the future, you won’t need to install Ruby and CocoaPods to target iOS or
>    macOS.

Reviewer: **issue:** 
- Use parallel structure in your list sentences.
- Remove the exclamation point per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/periods#exclamation-points).
- Keep the documentation timeless.
- Use present tense.

```suggestion
1. **Provides access to the Swift package ecosystem**.
   Flutter plugins can use the growing ecosystem of [Swift packages][]! 
1. **Simplifies Flutter installation**.
   Xcode includes Swift Package Manager.
   Targeting iOS or macOS doesn't require Ruby and CocoaPods.
```

Author: This sounds good but I tweaked the last sentence:

```diff
- Targeting iOS or macOS doesn't require Ruby and CocoaPods.
+ You don't need to install Ruby and CocoaPods if your project uses
+ Swift Package Manager.
```

Let me know what you think!

If you find a bug in Flutter's Swift Package Manager support,

> please [open an issue][].

Reviewer: **issue:** Remove _please_ per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/tone#politeness-and-use-of-please).

```suggestion
[open an issue][].
```

Author: This feels curt to me, but updated :(

[Swift Package Manager]: https://www.swift.org/documentation/package-manager/
[`main` channel]: /release/upgrade#switching-flutter-channels
[Swift packages]: https://swiftpackageindex.com/
[open an issue]: {{site.github}}/flutter/flutter/issues/new?template=2_bug.yml

{% include docs/swift-package-manager/how-to-enable-disable.md %}

## How to add Flutter to an existing app (add-to-app)

> Flutter's Swift Package Manager support doesn't work with add-to-app scenarios
> yet.
> 
> For status updates, see [flutter#146957].

Reviewer: **issue:** Keep the documentation timeless per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/timeless-documentation).

```suggestion
Flutter's Swift Package Manager support doesn't work with add-to-app scenarios.

To keep current on status updates, consult [flutter#146957].
```

Author: Updated!

[flutter#146957]: https://github.com/flutter/flutter/issues/146957

## How to add Swift Package Manager integration to a project manually

{% tabs %}
{% tab "iOS project" %}

{% include docs/swift-package-manager/migrate-ios-project-manually.md %}

{% endtab %}
{% tab "macOS project" %}

{% include docs/swift-package-manager/migrate-macos-project-manually.md %}

{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

## How to use a Swift Package Manager Flutter plugin that requires a higher OS version

If a Swift Package Flutter Manager plugin requires a higher OS version than
the project, you might get an error like this:

```plaintext
Target Integrity (Xcode): The package product 'plugin_name_ios' requires minimum platform version 14.0 for the iOS platform, but this target supports 12.0
```

> To use the plugin, you'll need to increase the **Minimum Deployments** of your
> app's target.

Reviewer: **issue:** Use present tense per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/tense).

```suggestion
To use the plugin, increase the **Minimum Deployments** of your app's target.
```

Author: Nice, updated!

> :::warning
> This raises your app's minimum OS version requirement.
> :::

Reviewer: **suggestion:** This is probably redundant.

```suggestion
```

Author: That's fair, removed!

{% render docs/captioned-image.liquid,
image:"development/packages-and-plugins/swift-package-manager/minimum-deployments.png",
caption:"The target's **Minimum Deployments** setting" %}

## How to add Swift Package Manager integration to a custom Xcode target

> Your Flutter Xcode project can have custom [Xcode targets][] to build additional
> products, like frameworks or unit tests.
> You can add Swift Package Manager integration to these custom Xcode targets
> as well.

Reviewer: **issue:** Condition, then instruction per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/sentence-structure).

```suggestion
To build additional products like frameworks or unit tests,
your Flutter Xcode project can have custom [Xcode targets][].
You can add Swift Package Manager integration to these custom Xcode targets.
```

Author: This first sentence isn't an instruction or a condition, it's more of a background "here's what custom Xcode targets are used for" in case someone is wondering if this section is for them. I personally prefer the first sentence as-is, how strongly do you feel about this?

I updated the second sentence!

Follow the steps in
[How to add Swift Package Manager integration to a project manually][manualIntegration].

In [Step 1][manualIntegrationStep1], list item 6 use your custom target instead
of the `Flutter` target.

In [Step 2][manualIntegrationStep2], list item 6 use your custom target instead
of the `Flutter` target.

[Xcode targets]: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/configuring-a-new-target-in-your-project
[manualIntegration]: /packages-and-plugins/swift-package-manager/for-app-developers/#how-to-add-swift-package-manager-integration-to-a-project-manually
[manualIntegrationStep1]: /packages-and-plugins/swift-package-manager/for-app-developers/#step-1-add-fluttergeneratedpluginswiftpackage-package-dependency
[manualIntegrationStep2]: /packages-and-plugins/swift-package-manager/for-app-developers/#step-2-add-run-prepare-flutter-framework-script-pre-action

## How to remove Swift Package Manager integration

> The Flutter CLI migrates your project to add Swift Package Manager integration.
> This makes your project download the Swift packages that your Flutter plugins
> depend on.

Reviewer: **issue:** 
Condition, then instruction per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/sentence-structure).

```suggestion
To add Swift Package Manager integration, the Flutter CLI migrates your project.
During this migration, your project downloads the Swift packages
on which your Flutter plugins depend.
```

Author: Mm my second sentence was incorrect. Sorry about that.

I updated this to:

> To add Swift Package Manager integration, the Flutter CLI migrates your project.
> This migration updates your Xcode project to add Flutter plugin dependencies.

Let me know what you think!

To undo this migration:

1. [Turn off Swift Package Manager][].

2. Open your app (`ios/Runner.xcworkspace` or `ios/Runner.xcworkspace`) in
   Xcode.

3. Navigate to **Package Dependencies** for the project.

> 4. Click on the `FlutterGeneratedPluginSwiftPackage` package and then click the
>    **-** button.

Reviewer: **issue:** Use the button's label per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/ui-elements#buttons).

```suggestion
4. Click the `FlutterGeneratedPluginSwiftPackage` package,
    then click <span class="material-symbols-outlined">add</span>.
```

Author: Updated. FYI the `-` appears too high:
 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/52e332ab-4e42-4bea-b808-c3551f4fa1f5)

It looks like I need to add a `vertical-align: text-bottom` to the `span`. 

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/95b86de4-3470-4be6-8b90-074ce93e6644)

Should I add that globally on the website for all `p span.material-symbols-outlined`?

   {% render docs/captioned-image.liquid,
   image:"development/packages-and-plugins/swift-package-manager/remove-generated-package.png",
   caption:"The `FlutterGeneratedPluginSwiftPackage` to remove" %}

4. Navigate to **Frameworks, Libraries, and Embedded Content** for the `Runner`
   target.

> 5. Click on `FlutterGeneratedPluginSwiftPackage` and then click the **-**
>    button.

Reviewer: **issue:** Use _click_, not _click on_ per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#click).

```suggestion
5. Click `FlutterGeneratedPluginSwiftPackage`,
   then click <span class="material-symbols-outlined">remove</span>.
```

Author: Updated!

   {% render docs/captioned-image.liquid,
   image:"development/packages-and-plugins/swift-package-manager/remove-generated-framework.png",
   caption:"The `FlutterGeneratedPluginSwiftPackage` to remove" %}

> 6. Select **Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme**.

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Phrase as _Go to_ instead of _Select_ per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/ui-elements#ui-terms).

```suggestion
6. Go to **Product > Scheme > Edit Scheme**.
```

Author: Updated!

> 7. Click the **>** next to **Build** in the left side bar.

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Focus on the task per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/ui-elements#task-focus).

```suggestion
7. Expand the **Build** section in the left side bar.
```

> 8. Select **Pre-actions**.
> 
> 9. Select the **Run Prepare Flutter Framework Script**.

Reviewer: **issue:** Use _click_ and _expand_.

```suggestion
8. Click **Pre-actions**.

9. Expand **Run Prepare Flutter Framework Script**.
```

Author: Updated!

> 10. Click the **<span class="material-symbols">delete</span>** button.

Reviewer: **issue:** Use _click_.

```suggestion
10. Click **<span class="material-symbols">delete</span>**.
```

Author: Updated!
